What is React Js?

It is basically a Js Library .
Used to make UI .

Importance:-

1.It is developed by META in 2013 .
2.It is used to build complex Frontend Tasks.

Reasons to develop :- 

Back in 2012 : We used Basic Frontend Tech like HTMl,CSS,JAVASCRIPT.

1.Users has to reload the entire app to load new changes in the Application ,this was time consuming and unncessary as well
has it caused a lot of latency and cannot be done regularly as it undermined user experience due to REACT JS Was developed 
and IT was developed using a Component Based Architecture. 

Example for a Drawback :- 

In the intial Facebook back in 2012 ,whenever we received a new message we had to reload the entire app to get the new message 
loaded to our feed ,this a major drawback of using Basic Frontend Tech.

Concepts Required to Cover React js for a Smooth Transition from JAVASCRIPT:

1.Basics
2.Functions 
3.Arrays
4.Objects
5.ES6+ Features
6.Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT

Difference between a Library and Framework:

Library is specifically used to develop one feature for a website ,for Example:
  1. GSAP:- Used for moving Animations in Websites
  2. Lenis:-Used for Smooth Scrolling inside the Websites.
  3. Reactjs :- Used for building UI for Websites.

Framework is specifically used to develop :- 

 1.Everything we need to build a Website or Application is given in itself,we don't get a lot of options to customization.

 Example:- 
 1.Angular
 2.Nextjs

 Difference between Real and Virtual DOM {Document Object Model}:-

 1.REal Dom is used to refer to the traditional HTML CSS JS model ,where we need to re render the entire even if we have to change a single 
 element value in the webpage.
 2.Whereas in virtual DOM,we don't have to do that only the component which needs change is re rendered hence overcomes the problem with REAL DOM.


Importance of JSX:-


1.This is basically a New file format which is basically used to write Html and JS inside a single file .

Syntax :-

var h1 = <h1>HEllo world </h1> //For variable

Function abc()
{
    console.log('hello");
}
<abc />
